---
layout:     post 
title:      "Generative Art, take 1."
subtitle:   "Getting started in R"
date:       2021-01-07
author:     "Joe Peskett"
---

Over the past week, I've started having a little play around with "generative art". For those who haven't seen/heard of this before, it involves sticking taking some inputs, applying some functions that often have some sort of random/simluation component to them, and plotting the output in an attractive manner. The goal is to create something that is aesethcially pleasing, not to present or visualise the underlying in a "useful" manner. There are some really great examples out there from people like Thomas Peterson, Danielle Novaro and William Chase. 

## Getting started: Cirlces and Sprials

As a starting point, I started with simply plotting points in `ggplot2` that build up a circle, playing with the number of points in the circle, joining the points up and playing with the radius. The actual code is very simple for getting a set of x y coordinates of a circle; in R this is:

```
num_points <- 1000
radius <- 10
angles <- seq(0, pi*2, length.out = num_points)

x <- radius * sin(angles)
y <- radius * cos(angles

circle_frame <- tibble(x = x, y =y) %>%
	mutate(new_x = x + shift_x,
	       new_y = y + shift_y)
```

From this, we already have a few parameters we can play with - the length of the angles vector, the start and end of that vector and the radius. We can also move the centre of circle, using a pattern like mutate. 

### Shifting Circles

To add a little more interest circles, we can plot multiple very similar circles. I've done this using the following functions, which takes parameters `num_circles` and `mean_rad`. We draw n samples from a normal distribution with mean `mean_rad` and then apply our circle generation function to each of those radii. Finally, we append all the similar circles into a single dataframe for plotting. 

But what abou shifting the position of the centre of each circle...

A final option is to randomly "step" sections of each circle up or down. Again, this is a relatively easy thing to do, using multipliers work much better in this case as we often end up plotting multiple sets of circles with quite different mean radius values.

### Spiral time!

This was actually easier than I thought it was going to be - I thought there was going to be something that I hadn't considered but it turns out you can just uniformly increase (or decrease) the radius to return a nice smooth spiral. 

### Connecting the spirals

We could now just shift the spirals around randomly, or generate some 2D distribution to shift the centre of each spiral.   

### Colouring it all in.

Before going any further, a shout out to the developers of ggplot2 for including the English/european spelling of `colour` in the package!: 
